The options for withdrawal are; 
You may choose not to receive further questionnaires but are happy for us to use the answers you have given us so far and for us to continue to access your medical records Or 
You may prefer for the researchers to no longer contact you or access your medical records in the future but use the information provided so far Or 
You may prefer the researchers to no longer contact you or use the information collected previously 11.
Further information and contact details 
If you require information about this research project that has't been covered in this information sheet please contact the; 
University of Southampton HORIZONS research office on 023 8059 6885 
Chief Investigator, Professor Claire Foster 023 8059 6885 
Your hospital [add name of main contact and contact details for this study at your site here], the Principal Investigator'
s contact details are below.
University of Southampton University Hospital Southampton NHS Foundation Trust HORIZONS Central Research Office Tel: 023 8059 6885 Chief Investigator: Professor Claire Foster; Tel: 023 8059 6885 Local Principal Investigator: [Investigator Name] Participant Information Sheet Macmillan HORIZONS Study: Understanding the impact of cancer diagnosis and treatment on everyday life 1.
We will be asking participants to complete questionnaires to find out how people's health and well-being is after diagnosis and treatment 
We understand that this invitation comes at a time when you have a lot to deal with already, but we need to find out how you are before your treatment, so that we can find out how your health and well-being changes over time.
We would also like to ask your permission to gather information that is routinely collected about you by the NHS, such as your clinical and treatment details both through your medical records and national databases such as NHS Digital and other central UK bodies.
Involvement of your General Practitioner/ Family doctor (GP) 
We will inform your GP that you are taking part in this study, and may contact your GP before mailing out the follow up questionnaire in case your details have changed or you have moved.
Your hospital and the MSRG will use your name, NHS number and contact details to contact you about the research study, and make sure that relevant information about the study is recorded for your care, and to oversee the quality of the study.
[add local PI name here] Principal Investigator [add local PI contact details here] Professor Claire Foster School of Health Sciences University of Southampton Highfield, Southampton, SO17 1BJ Telephone 023 8059 6885 This information sheet is for you to keep.
The only people in UHSFT and the MSRG who will have access to information that identifies you will be people who need to contact you to send or request questionnaires, process and analyse your data, or audit the data collection process.
When you agree to take part in a research study, the information about your health and care may be provided to researchers running other research studies in this organisation and in other organisations.
Other studies collect data about people from their medical and hospital records, but we believe it is important to find out about your health and well-being from your perspective through your responses to questionnaires.
If you remain unhappy and wish to complain formally, you can do this via the University Hospital Southampton NHS Foundation Trust Patient Advice and Liaison Service email PALS uhs.
The results of this study will be made available to all participating hospital specialists, will be published in health care journals and presented at national and international conferences.
As a publicly funded organisation, we have to ensure that it is in the public interest when we use personally identifiable information from people who have agreed to take part in research.
If you have not returned the first questionnaire two weeks after you have consented, we may ring you to see if you have any questions regarding the study or require another questionnaire.
We do not anticipate that there will be any risks to you in taking part in the study, but if you have any concerns about your health as a result you should contact your doctor or nurse.
If you decide to participate you will be asked to sign a consent form and given a copy of this to keep for your records Thank you for taking the time to read this information sheet
Information held on national databases such as NHS Digital and other central UK bodies may be used to help contact you or provide additional information for health research.
Your rights to access, change or move your information are limited, as we need to manage your information in specific ways in order for the research to be reliable and accurate.
We will also ask you in the consent form if the information collected in this research may be shared anonymously with other researchers to support research in the future.
Your information will only be used by organisations and researchers to conduct research in accordance with the UK Policy Framework for Health and Social Care Research.
This information is being provided to you to fulfil data transparency requirements under the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) for health and care research.
You can complete the questionnaire during your hospital visit and hand it to the nurse or researcher or you can take it home to complete and return in the pre-paid envelope.
All data stored at the University of Southampton will be kept in locked filing cabinets in a secure office, accessible only by the HORIZONS research team.
In the consent form we will ask if you are happy for us to use direct, anonymous, quotations from the questionnaires in any reports or publications we write.
Individuals from UHSFT and regulatory organisations may look at your medical and research records to check the accuracy of the research study.
UHSFT will be using information from you and your medical records in order to undertake this study and will act as the data controller for this study.
You have been asked to take part in the study because you are awaiting treatment for either breast cancer, gynecological cancer or non-Hodgkin lymphoma.
A growing number of people are living for many years after cancer treatment but we don't yet know all the ways to support them to ensure the best possible recovery.
Any medical information about you which leaves your hospital will have your name and address removed so that you cannot be recognised.
We hope that the information you provide in your questionnaires will help us understand people'
s experiences following diagnosis and treatment for cancer.
This research is being organised by the School of Health Sciences, University of Southampton and University Hospitals Southampton NHS Foundation Trust.
Where this information could identify you, the information will be held securely with strict arrangements about who can access the information.
After you have read the information sheet and have had your questions answered, you will be asked whether you are happy to take part in the study.
Understanding what is important to people with cancer during their treatment and in the months and years afterwards will help inform support services in the future.
If you have provided consent, your NHS or hospital number will be sent securely to these organisations so your data can be linked.
If you have agreed for us to collect routine NHS data this will be tracked using your NHS and hospital numbers, but your name will be removed.
This means that when you agree to take part in a research study, we will use your data in the ways needed to conduct and analyse the research study.
If you return a questionnaire with missing information, we will contact you just to check if this information has been missed by accident or not.
The study has been reviewed by Macmillan Cancer Support and by the relevant Clinical Studies Groups of the National Cancer Research Institute.
These organisations may be universities, NHS organisations or companies involved in health and care research in this country or abroad.
uk or telephone 023 8120 8498 or through your local PALs office: PALS office Email: [local PALS email here] Tel: [local PALS telephone number here] 16.
The information will only be used for the purpose of health and care research, and cannot be used to contact you or to affect your care.
This information will not identify you and will not be combined with other information in a way that could identify you.
Your hospital and the MSRG will keep identifiable information about you from this study for 10 years after the study has finished.
The MSRG and your hospital will collect information from you or your medical records for this research in accordance with our instructions.