Direct line: [Telephone Number] E-mail: [Contact Email] Dr Debbie Cooke School of Health & Social Care Faculty of Health & Medical Sciences University of Surrey Guildford, GU2 7XH Direct line: [Telephone Number] E-mail: [Contact Email] Thank you for taking the time to read this information sheet.
All personal details (such as your name and address) will be stored separately in locked filling cabinets and held on computers which will be password protected and only accessible by members of the University of Southampton research team.
If you have a concern or a complaint about the conduct of this study you should contact: The Research Governance Manager, Building 37, University of Southampton, Highfield, Southampton, SO17 1BJ, Telephone: 023 8059 5058 or email rgoinfo@soton.
If, having read this information, you are happy to take part, please complete the questionnaire and return it to the researcher at the workshop, or send it to us at the University of Southampton in the pre-paid envelope provided.
University of Surrey University of Southampton Prostate Cancer UK Movember Foundation Participant Information Sheet Study Title: Evaluation of the impact of a Prostate Cancer Survivorship Care Programme.
If you are happy to take part in the interview, please complete the reply slip and return it to the researcher at the workshop, or send it us at the University of Southampton in the pre-paid envelope provided.
It is unlikely that you will benefit directly from taking part in this research, but the results from the study will help us to further develop and improve services for men with prostate cancer.
Instead, you will be allocated a number at the start of the study that will be used to identify your data; your name and address will not be recorded on the questionnaire.
The Charity Prostate Cancer UK in conjunction with Movember is funding the introduction of a new service - the Prostate Cancer Survivorship Care Programme - in five NHS hospitals in the UK.
All data, including audio recordings, collected in the study will be held for 10 years and will then be destroyed in accordance with University of Southampton policy.
If you remain unhappy and wish to complain formally the Research Governance Manager can provide you with details of the University of Southampton complaints procedure.
We will not be able to talk to everyone but would like to talk to men of different ages, who have had different cancer treatments and different levels of experience of computing.
Neither the information that is collected about you during the course of the study nor any of the results published will identify you personally.
Study No: NRES Committee East of England - Cambridge South reference number 14/EE/1021 Invitation to participate You are being invited to take part in a research study.
You will be able to skip any questions that you do not wish to answer or you can stop the questionnaire or interview at any point, should you wish to do so.
The interview can be held at the hospital, a university office or at your home, whichever you prefer, and at a time convenient to you.
The research is being organised and co-ordinated by the University of Southampton in conjuction with the University of Surrey.
A final report will be prepared for the funders and the results of the study will be published in health care journals and presented at conferences.
Part of the Care Programme will be a workshop for men with prostate cancer which will help them better manage any prostate cancer related issues they have.