University of Surrey University of Southampton Prostate Cancer UK Movember Foundation
Participant Information Sheet
Study Title: Evaluation of the impact of a Prostate Cancer Survivorship Care Programme.
Study No: NRES Committee East of England - Cambridge South reference number 14/EE/1021
Invitation to participate
You are being invited to take part in a research study. Before you decide for sure that you would like to take part, it is important you understand why the research is being done and what it would involve. Please take time to decide whether or not you wish to take part and ask if anything is not clear (contact details are at the end of this sheet).
What is the purpose of the study?
The Charity Prostate Cancer UK in conjunction with Movember is funding the introduction of a new service - the Prostate Cancer Survivorship Care Programme - in five NHS hospitals in the UK. The Care Programme will be introduced in January 2015. Part of the Care Programme will be a workshop for men with prostate cancer which will help them better manage any prostate cancer related issues they have. The workshop has been used previously with patients with breast, colorectal and testicular cancer. The content of the workshop has been adapted to suit the needs of men with prostate cancer. We want to find out what men think about the workshop and whether it might be improved.
Why have I been invited to take part?
We are inviting all men who attended the new workshop to take part in the research.
Do I have to take part?
No, taking part in this research is voluntary and your medical care will not be affected if you decide you do not wish to take part. If you do agree to take part, you can withdraw from the research at any time without giving a reason.
What will happen to me if I take part in the study?
You will be asked to complete a questionnaire about your experience of the workshop. The questionnaire will include questions about what you liked and didn't like about the workshop format and content. The questionnaire can be completed at the end of the workshop session, or at home and returned to us in a freepost envelope which we will provide.
You will also be asked whether you are happy to take part in an interview about your experience of the workshop. We will not be able to talk to everyone but would like to talk to men of different ages, who have had different cancer treatments and different levels of experience of computing. Interviews will be audio recorded so that we can analyse them later. The interview will not take more than 60 minutes. There are no 'right' or 'wrong' answers, we are interested in your opinions and experiences. The interview can be held at the hospital, a university office or at your home, whichever you prefer, and at a time convenient to you. Your responses will be anonymous and you will not be identifiable from any of the recordings or reports arising from the study.
Are there any benefits of taking part?
It is unlikely that you will benefit directly from taking part in this research, but the results from the study will help us to further develop and improve services for men with prostate cancer.
What are the possible disadvantages or risks of taking part?
There are minimal disadvantages to taking part in the research. The main disadvantage is the time it will take. The questionnaire will take around 10 minutes to complete and the interview will take up to one hour. Some people may find distressing to reflect on their experiences or their care. You will be able to skip any questions that you do not wish to answer or you can stop the questionnaire or interview at any point, should you wish to do so.
Will my taking part in the study be kept confidential?
Neither the information that is collected about you during the course of the study nor any of the results published will identify you personally. Instead, you will be allocated a number at the start of the study that will be used to identify your data; your name and address will not be recorded on the questionnaire. All personal details (such as your name and address) will be stored separately in locked filling cabinets and held on computers which will be password protected and only accessible by members of the University of Southampton research team.
All data, including audio recordings, collected in the study will be held for 10 years and will then be destroyed in accordance with University of Southampton policy.
What will happen to the results of the study?
The purpose of the research is to develop a workshop which is right for men with prostate cancer and your views will be used to do this. A final report will be prepared for the funders and the results of the study will be published in health care journals and presented at conferences.
Everyone taking part in this study will be asked whether they would like to be kept informed of the results of the study. A summary of the results will be sent to those who request it.
Who is organising and funding the study?
The research is being organised and co-ordinated by the University of Southampton in conjuction with the University of Surrey. The funder is Prostate Cancer UK in conjunction with Movember.
Who has reviewed the study?
The study has been reviewed and received a favourable opinion from East of England - Cambridge South Ethics Committee.
What is there is a problem?
If you have a concern or a complaint about the conduct of this study you should contact: The Research Governance Manager, Building 37, University of Southampton, Highfield, Southampton, SO17 1BJ, Telephone: 023 8059 5058 or email rgoinfo@soton.ac.uk.
If you remain unhappy and wish to complain formally the Research Governance Manager can provide you with details of the University of Southampton complaints procedure.
What do I do now?
If, having read this information, you are happy to take part, please complete the questionnaire and return it to the researcher at the workshop, or send it to us at the University of Southampton in the pre-paid envelope provided.
If you are happy to take part in the interview, please complete the reply slip and return it to the researcher at the workshop, or send it us at the University of Southampton in the pre-paid envelope provided. A researcher will the contact you by the telephone about the interview.
Contact for further information
If you have any questions about this research, please contact either Dr Jane Frankland or Dr Debbie Cooke. Their contact details are given below:
Dr Jane Frankland Senior Research Fellow School of Health Sciences University of Southampton Southampton, SO17 1BJ. Direct line: [Telephone Number] E-mail: [Contact Email]
Dr Debbie Cooke School of Health & Social Care Faculty of Health & Medical Sciences University of Surrey Guildford, GU2 7XH Direct line: [Telephone Number] E-mail: [Contact Email]
Thank you for taking the time to read this information sheet. 