Further information and contact details If you require information about this research project that hasn’t been covered in this information sheet please contact the; *University of Southampton research office on 023 8059 6885 *Chief Investigators, Professor Claire Foster and Ms Caroline Moore -Chief Investigators Professor Claire Foster Faculty of Health Sciences University of Southampton Highfield, Southampton, SO17 1BJ Telephone 023 8059 6885 -Ms Caroline Moore University College Hospital 16-18 Westmoreland Street Marylebone, London, W1G 8PH caroline.
The options for withdrawal are; *No further contact- we would no longer send you questionnaires, but would still have your permission to retain and use information provided so far and to continue collect routine clinical data Or *No further use- we would no longer contact you in the future, and information collected previously would no longer be available to researchers.
Processing your information for trials is necessary for the performance of a task carried out in the public interest (General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) Article 6(1)(e)) and under Article 9(2)(j) necessary for archiving purposes in the public interest, scientific or historical research purposes in accordance with Article 89 (1).
We are also gathering information for the TrueNTH Global Registry project that is routinely collected by the NHS, such as clinical and treatment details both through medical records and national databases such as the Health and Social Care Information Centre and other central UK bodies.
The only people in the University of Southampton who will have access to information that identifies you will be people who need to contact you to send or request questionnaires, process and analyse your data, or audit the data collection process.
Your hospital will use your name, NHS number and contact details to contact you about the research study, and make sure that relevant information about the study is recorded for your care, and to oversee the quality of the study.
We understand that this invitation comes at a time when you have a lot to deal with already, but we need to find out how you are before your treatment, so that we can find out whether your health and well-being changes over time.
Central Research Office Tel: 023 8059 6885 Chief Investigator: Professor Claire Foster; Tel: 023 8059 6885 Local Principal Investigator: [insert name and contact telephone here] TrueNTH Global Registry Participant Information Sheet 1.
If you decide to participate by completing questionnaires you will be asked to sign a consent form and given a copy of this to keep for your records Thank you for taking the time to read this information sheet
When you agree to take part in a research study, the information about your health and care may be provided to researchers running other research studies in this organisation and in other organisations.
Other studies collect data about people from their medical and hospital records, but we believe it is important to find out about your health and wellbeing from your perspective through your responses to questionnaires.
You can complete the questionnaire electronically or on paper during your hospital visit and hand it to the nurse or researcher or you can take it home to complete and return in the pre-paid envelope.
As a publicly-funded organisation, we have to ensure that it is in the public interest when we use personally- identifiable information from people who have agreed to take part in research.
We do not anticipate that there will be any risks to you in taking part in the study, but if you have any concerns about your health as a result you should contact your doctor or nurse.
Your information could be used for research in any aspect of health or care, and could be combined with information about you from other sources held by researchers, the NHS or government.
Individuals from the University of Southampton and regulatory organisations may look at your medical and research records to check the accuracy of the research study.
You have been asked to take part in the study because you have been diagnosed with localised prostate cancer and are waiting for treatment or are undergoing watchful waiting or active surveillance.
If you have agreed for us to collect routine NHS data this will be tracked using your NHS and hospital numbers, but your name will be removed so that it does not identify you.
Your rights to access, change or move your information are limited, as we need to manage your information in specific ways in order for the research to be reliable and accurate.
If there is a problem or you have any concerns, you can contact the Research Governance Office at the University of Southampton on 023 8059 5058 or by email rgoinfo@soton.
The global project is being organised by the TrueNTH Global Registry Executive Team, chaired by Dr Mark Litwin at University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA).
All questionnaire and clinical data from UK patients will be sent to Monash University, Australia, to be analysed alongside data from eleven other countries.
Your information will only be used by organisations and researchers to conduct research in accordance with the UK Policy Framework for Health and Social Care Research.
This information is being provided to you to fulfil data transparency requirements under the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) for health and care research.
You may receive the first questionnaire by post, in person during a clinic appointment, or be provided with details on how to complete the questionnaire electronically.
We hope that the information you provide in your questionnaires will help us understand men’s health and wellbeing following diagnosis of localised prostate cancer.
Where there is a risk that you can be identified your data will only be used in research that has been independently reviewed by an ethics committee.
The information collected in this research will be added anonymously to the global TrueNTH Global Registry database for comparison with other countries.
The information will only be used for the purpose of health and care research, or to contact you about future opportunities to participate in research.
We will be using information from you and your medical records in order to undertake this study and will act as the data controller for this study.
If you would not like your clinical information to be included please sign an opt-out form and return it using a pre-paid envelope to your hospital.
The Chief Investigators for the UK study are Professor Claire Foster, University of Southampton, and Ms Caroline Moore, University College London.
All data stored at the University of Southampton will be kept in locked filing cabinets in a secure office, accessible only by the research team.
Any medical information about you which leaves your hospital will have your name and address removed so that you cannot be recognised.
Your hospital will pass these details to the University of Southampton along with the information collected from you and your medical records.
Where this information could identify you, the information will be held securely with strict arrangements about who can access the information.
Where this information could identify you, the information will be held securely with strict arrangements about who can access the information.
If you return a questionnaire with missing information, we may contact you just to check if this information has been missed by accident or not.
After you have read the information sheet and have had your questions answered, you will be asked whether you are happy to take part in the study.
This means that when you agree to take part in a research study, we will use your data in the ways needed to conduct and analyse the research study.
No identifiable information will be sent to Monash University and data will be stored securely according to a strict protocol.
These organisations may be universities, NHS organisations or companies involved in health and care research in this country or abroad.
Patients will have had a diagnosis of localised prostate cancer (cancer is confined to the prostate and hasn’t spread anywhere else in the body).
Please take the information sheet away with you and you can talk to your friends, family or clinical team about the study if you wish.
If you are finding any aspect of your experience difficult, we can also provide you with details of where you might get more support.
Findings during the study will be reported back to participating NHS hospitals leading to possible improvements in the care you receive.
All research in the NHS is looked at by an independent group of people, called a Research Ethics Committee, to protect your interests.
