If you are in Group A your samples will be analysed for many different viruses using the rapid test which takes about 1 hour.
The clinical team looking after you may wish to test you for respiratory viruses and if they do, this will be using standard laboratory testing.
For both Groups A and B you have the right to decline all or any of these further research samples, should you wish, and this will not affect you being part of this study or the care you receive.
The samples collected during the study are stored without any of personal details on them and are only used in further ethically approved research under the direction of the chief investigator of this study.

The results of this study will be made available to all participating hospital specialists, will be published in health care journals and presented at national and international conferences.
Where this information could identify you, the information will be held securely with strict arrangements about who can access the information.
* If you return a questionnaire with missing information, we will contact you just to check if this information has been missed by accident or not.
* This information will not identify you and will not be combined with other information in a way that could identify you.

We will not be able to talk to everyone but would like to talk to men of different ages, who have had different cancer treatments and different levels of experience of computing.
The research is being organised and co-ordinated by the University of Southampton in conjuction with the University of Surrey.
The interview can be held at the hospital, a university office or at your home, whichever you prefer, and at a time convenient to you.
If, having read this information, you are happy to take part, please complete the questionnaire and return it to the researcher at the workshop, or send it to us at the University of Southampton in the pre-paid envelope provided.

*Where this information could identify you, the information will be held securely with strict arrangements about who can access the information.
Patients will have had a diagnosis of localised prostate cancer (cancer is confined to the prostate and hasn’t spread anywhere else in the body).
*We understand that this invitation comes at a time when you have a lot to deal with already, but we need to find out how you are before your treatment, so that we can find out whether your health and well-being changes over time.
Please take the information sheet away with you and you can talk to your friends, family or clinical team about the study if you wish.