Other studies collect data about people from their medical and hospital records, but we believe it is important to find out about your health and well-being from your perspective through your responses to questionnaires.
As a publicly funded organisation, we have to ensure that it is in the public interest when we use personally identifiable information from people who have agreed to take part in research.
When you agree to take part in a research study, the information about your health and care may be provided to researchers running other research studies in this organisation and in other organisations.
Your rights to access, change or move your information are limited, as we need to manage your information in specific ways in order for the research to be reliable and accurate.
If you have not returned the first questionnaire two weeks after you have consented, we may ring you to see if you have any questions regarding the study or require another questionnaire.
You can complete the questionnaire during your hospital visit and hand it to the nurse or researcher or you can take it home to complete and return in the pre-paid envelope.
A growing number of people are living for many years after cancer treatment but we don`t yet know all the ways to support them to ensure the best possible recovery.
We will inform your GP that you are taking part in this study, and may contact your GP before mailing out the follow up questionnaire in case your details have changed or you have moved.
We do not anticipate that there will be any risks to you in taking part in the study, but if you have any concerns about your health as a result you should contact your doctor or nurse.
After you have read the information sheet and have had your questions answered, you will be asked whether you are happy to take part in the study.
This means that when you agree to take part in a research study, we will use your data in the ways needed to conduct and analyse the research study.
If you have agreed for us to collect routine NHS data this will be tracked using your NHS and hospital numbers, but your name will be removed.
All personal details (such as your name and address) will be stored separately in locked filling cabinets and held on computers which will be password protected and only accessible by members of the University of Southampton research team.
The Charity Prostate Cancer UK in conjunction with Movember is funding the introduction of a new service - the Prostate Cancer Survivorship Care Programme - in five NHS hospitals in the UK.
If, having read this information, you are happy to take part, please complete the questionnaire and return it to the researcher at the workshop, or send it to us at the University of Southampton in the pre-paid envelope provided.
We will not be able to talk to everyone but would like to talk to men of different ages, who have had different cancer treatments and different levels of experience of computing.
It is unlikely that you will benefit directly from taking part in this research, but the results from the study will help us to further develop and improve services for men with prostate cancer.
Instead, you will be allocated a number at the start of the study that will be used to identify your data; your name and address will not be recorded on the questionnaire.
Before you decide for sure that you would like to take part, it is important you understand why the research is being done and what it would involve.
No, taking part in this research is voluntary and your medical care will not be affected if you decide you do not wish to take part.
The questionnaire can be completed at the end of the workshop session, or at home and returned to us in a freepost envelope which we will provide.
Part of the Care Programme will be a workshop for men with prostate cancer which will help them better manage any prostate cancer related issues they have.
Please take time to decide whether or not you wish to take part and ask if anything is not clear (contact details are at the end of this sheet).
The purpose of the research is to develop a workshop which is right for men with prostate cancer and your views will be used to do this.
Processing your information for trials is necessary for the performance of a task carried out in the public interest (General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) Article 6(1)(e)) and under Article 9(2)(j) necessary for archiving purposes in the public interest, scientific or historical research purposes in accordance with Article 89 (1).
We are also gathering information for the TrueNTH Global Registry project that is routinely collected by the NHS, such as clinical and treatment details both through medical records and national databases such as the Health and Social Care Information Centre and other central UK bodies.
The only people in the University of Southampton who will have access to information that identifies you will be people who need to contact you to send or request questionnaires, process and analyse your data, or audit the data collection process.
You can complete the questionnaire electronically or on paper during your hospital visit and hand it to the nurse or researcher or you can take it home to complete and return in the pre-paid envelope.
When you agree to take part in a research study, the information about your health and care may be provided to researchers running other research studies in this organisation and in other organisations.
If you decide to participate by completing questionnaires you will be asked to sign a consent form and given a copy of this to keep for your records Thank you for taking the time to read this information sheet
We will be asking participants to complete questionnaires to find out how men’s health and well-being is after diagnosis and treatment.
Patients will have had a diagnosis of localised prostate cancer (cancer is confined to the prostate and hasn't spread anywhere else in the body).
 Your hospital will keep identifiable information about you from this study for 10 years after the study has finished.
The research nurse or member of your clinical team will go through the information sheet with you and answer any questions you have.
We are interested in how a diagnosis of prostate cancer and its treatment affects a person’s health and well-being.
If you are finding any aspect of your experience difficult, we can also provide you with details of where you might get more support.